#summary Staff meeting 5/10-2010

Minutes by Jost

Status and planning meeting at NBI.

Attending: Benjamin, Frederik, Jesper, Jost 

== General plans summary ==

 * Get in shape for/start with real users!
  * Access to resources
  * Invite (and support) pilot users
 * DCSC user conference *November* *9*: we should contribute

== Demo GridPilot ==

Gridpilot is a Java-based client application interfacing to different
Grid systems, developed by Frederik. 

==== Demoed functionality ====
 * installer (including java runtime).
 * Credential management (test credentials built-in)
 * Backends: Nordugrid, SSH, GLite, GridFactory (which we used)
 * Example applications to get started
  * flac to mp3
  * Blast

==== Quick look at the concepts ====

An _application_ is a program or script (called an _executable_) and
job template together with a set of _datasets_.
A _dataset_ can be extended with new files (conceptually. They can be
URLs as well), and can be output or input to _jobs_.
_Jobs_ are defined following a template of the application, and
conceptually are part of their output destination datasets.
_Executables_, typically shell scripts, are specified together with
input and output files (using reserved identifiers like inputFiles,
nEvents etc.). 

A monitor functionality shows the jobs' progress for all submitted
jobs. 
Software requirements are resolved by using virtual machines in
GridFactory. Virtual machines can be reused for new jobs for a certain 
period to amortise the startup cost.

Gridpilot uses its own runtime environment concept, held in a purpose-made
XML catalogue which supports dependencies and includes virtual 
machines in its concepts. Some software is provided as tarballs 
or disk images, various concepts.

==== To use Gridpilot with Grid.dk ====

 * Implement a MiG backend
 * showcase it at the DCSC user conference
 * Gridpilot as an added value: 
  * can provide grid services to grid-illiterates (requires that we develop custom (Gridpilot-)applications for the user)

== Getting Resources ==

 * the ARC support in the portal still needs to be refined
  * job type vocabulary "batch" vs. "arc" still unfavourable
  * need to explicitly target ARC resources (using functionality similar to [https://portal.grid.dk/cgi-bin/arcresources.py arcresources.py]). Need to extend MiG-code (ARC binding of MiG does not support choosing queues yet).
 * new 300 core cluster at NBI, tier 3
  * we cannot use it officially, it has been bought by a physics project
 * we have to consolidate access to Aalborg clusters
  * set up a meeting with Josva
  * we should (at the same time) have some pilot users ready
  * have resources and users ready for demo in November

== Checking documented "advanced" use cases, portal test drive ==

 * Jesper and Frederik tried out the described use cases
  * CA certificate file causes problems. We needs a *link* to *CommonErrors*
  * maybe switch to *.globus* as the standard location
  * provide a *.mig/miguser.conf* for *download* - use tildes (~) in this file
 * epistatis: *R* *package* problems (R not installed, need to check runtime env.)
 * epistasis/molegro: use *popen*, which causes deprecation warnings
 * *molegro* *license* needs to be updated
 * *epistatis* should provide all files for *download*
 * users should be able to copy-paste field contents of the examples
 * maybe the files could be provided in a (read-only) *group* *folder* on the server
 * there should be a section *Files* in every examples

 * maybe the wiki should include an "intermediate level" example?

 * Can we avoid new users getting "ssl handshake failure" as their greeting page?
  * solve by a redirect from the www.grid.dk start page to a dummy with optional certificate.

== Recently... ==

 * Jesper: SGAS VGrid extension, some fixes
 * Benjamin: simplified python mig library
 * Jost: some MiG fixes, resource debugging and maintenance
 * Frederik: development of Gridpilot

== Misc ==

 * ARC support: targeting specific resources (queues)
 * new SGAS database. We should have a look and update. Postponed for now.
 * WAYF / Terena: we are waiting.

== Action Items ==

 * talk to Brian about the user conference
 * set up a meeting with Josva about resources (and QoS)
 * check tier-1 access based on "dcsc.dk" membership
  * Nordugrid certificate (Jesper's new certificate)
  * Are MiG certificates/proxies accepted on the tier-1 cluster?
 * polishing the example pages as described above