Grid.dk - Virtual Organizations from VOMS
Using VOMS for all Grid.dk VO membership management
Last updated %%date(%d-%m-%Y %H:%M)
% End of the three default header lines
%! Encoding: utf8
%! Options : --toc --enum-title
% End of the optional settings lines

%
% This is a txt2tags formatted document.
% Generate HTML version by running:
% txt2tags --toc -t html -o NAME.html NAME.t2t
%
% Generate LaTeX version by running:
% txt2tags --toc -t tex -o NAME.tex NAME.t2t
%
% The Makefile wraps up generation including the two examples above
% nicely. So just run: 
% make NAME.{html,ps,pdf}


%%toc

= Introduction =
In Grid.dk we want to use a single centralized database for Virtual
Organization (VO) administration. As we already have in particular the
DCSC members availablee in the Nordugrid VOMS system, we might as well
use that as the central database for our portal. We need to have the
VO database integrated with both of the grid middlewares, ARC and MiG.


= Requirements =
ARC is already integrated with VOMS, so that part requires no
additional work from our side. MiG on the other hand handles VO's
internally in the form of VGrids in addition to managing all users
locally. As VGrids membership is handled as just a flat text file with
certificate DN's it is not difficult to integarate by regularly dumping
VOMS contents and syncronize with the VGrid membership files. VOMS
provides an XML dump (SOAP) of all members, so a little parsing is
necessary to get the plain text form.
Users need to be locally defined before they can use the server
and participate in VGrids. So we need to add any missing users from the
VOMS-dump first.


= Implementation =
A new importusers script was added to the MiG middleware in
mig/server/importusers.py. It takes a VOMS-dump URL as argument and adds
any missing users to the local MiG server. It also allows one or more
additional VGrid arguments, which directs the import script to add any
new users to each of those VGrids. Thus we can simply call the
importusers script with the URL of the DCSC VOMS membership dump and
DCSC as the VGrid argument. That will add all missing users and send a
DCSC VGrid membership request for each one. 
The owner(s) of the DCSC VGrid will then receive the request by instant
messenger or mail. This means that new users will get basic MiG access
as soon as the import script runs next time, and full DCSC access
through MiG as soon as one of the VGrid owners accept the request.
As we did not want to add a SOAP dependency just to parse the relatively
simple VOMS dump we simply made a simple parser to extract the entries.

We also created a cron script to actually call the importusers script
with the relevant parameters. This script was then inserted in
/etc/cron.hourly on the portal server to automatically import any new
users once an hour.

As the VOMS-dump page requires authentication and authorization using a
e.g. a Nordugrid key+certificate we have created such a pair, which can
be used from cron i.e. without providing a passphrase.


= Deployment =
The cron job is in place and adding missing users. At one point we
experienced problems because the VOMS-dump SOAP/XML format changed and
broke our XML tag based parsing. Therefore we further simplified the
parsing to grab anything that looks like a certificate DN instead of
relying on an undocumented XML schema.
